🪱
welcome to pump.science
The only game you can play forever

What Is pump.science
pump.science is a crypto-powered research protocol designed to maximize human healthspan. Why healthspan and not lifespan? Because what good is living longer if you’re not actually living?

The protocol lets users: 

> Launch a tokenized intervention - turning a potentially life extending compound into a token
> Fund the research through trading fees - every transaction fuels real world science
> Advance scientifically only what the market wants, and the research proves out

pump.science was born from the belief that when the barriers to scientific creation fall, breakthroughs rise. And it’s not just about the science—it’s about having fun, too.

TL;DR
• Science is too closed off -> Open up science by streaming experiments for all to see.

• Research can be slow -> Conduct high-throughput science experiments powered by robotics + AI.

• Scientists shape science -> Anyone can become a citizen scientist, no PhD required.

• Research is expensive, and funding is hard to get -> Crypto trading fees fund science.

How pump.science Works 
Submit an intervention: Drug developers (drug devs) propose an intervention or cocktail of interventions for testing on the pump science site. 

Launch a token: If the submission passes various checks (safety/ availability), a new token representing the compound and related experiments is launched on pump science. 

Drug devs can purchase the first tokens from the bonding curve, which kickstarts the fundraising process. 

The pump.science bonding curve uses a dynamic fee model to prevent bots from sniping a large portion of the supply. 

Reach token market cap & start streaming: Once the token’s market cap reaches 303 SOL (Solana’s native cryptocurrency), the bonding curve closes, and: 

82 SOL is migrated to a decentralized exchange for trading.

3 SOL is used to pay for the first experiment in worms.

Worm (C elegans) experiments previously conducted via Ora Biomedical's Wormbot begin streaming directly to users on a pump.science.

Trading fees fund additional research: Interventions build a research treasury through trading fees. If sufficient fees accrue and the intervention is deemed safe, the next stage of research is initiated:

$6,067 → Fly longevity tests via Tracked Biotechnologies in the FlyBox (live updates).

$46,067 → Mouse endurance trials via Tracked Biotechnologies via MouseWatcher and Rotarod studies (live updates).

$112,733 → Decentralized human trials using wearables via Pulse No Limits (coming soon)

Follow experiments: All experiments stream data to pump.science at regular intervals so users can for themselves if a compound helps the animal live longer.

Own the rights: compound tokens give holders rights to the IP created from the experiments. Token holders can vote to license the compound to a manufacturer. 

Buyback and burn: When products hit the market, if voted on by the community, a portion of sales can go to buybacks and burning the compound’s token, reducing the supply of circulating tokens.
